README.md, before:

# mineweeper

A minesweeper clone written in C/C++ to be run in a terminal with ```ncurses``` and ```pdcurses``` support.
Windows build was cross-compiled from Linux.

## Controls

- WASD / Arrow keys = Move cursor
- Space = Flag a cell
- Enter = Reveal a cell

## Features

- [X] Three different difficulties + hidden custom difficulty
- [X] Safe first cell, first cell always guaranteed to be a zero cell
- [X] Colour support
- [X] Quick reveal (press enter on a numbered cell once enough flags were placed around it to reveal unflagged cells)
- [X] Windows & Linux support

## Planned Features

- [ ] GUI support
- [ ] Leaderboard / score system
- [ ] No guesses mode
- [ ] Refactored / cleaner codebase (current code is too hacky and written in a few hours)

## Known Issues

- Larger field sizes will be slower to be redrawn
- When playing custom difficulty, the game will be softlocked after the first click if the number of safe spaces is too little compared to the available cells (eg. 10x10 board with 99 mines)

## Custom Difficulty

Run the app with the following commandline arguments: ```minesweeper -D 3 -W [width] -H [height] -M [mines]```

- ```width``` and ```height``` must be at least 9
- ```mines``` must be at least 1

## Build Instructions

### Linux

Linux build is easy to compile. We recommend WSL if you're on Windows:
- Make sure ```ncurses``` is installed.
- Make sure ```g++``` is installed.
- Run ```make build-linux```.
- Run the built executable in ```bin```.

### Windows

Windows build need to be cross-compiled from Linux and is more complicated. WSL is recommended:
- Prebuilt ```pdcurses``` is already included as ```libpdcurses.a```.
  - To build from platforms other than Linux, you need to rebuild ```pdcurses``` from [source](https://pdcurses.org/).
- Make sure ```mingw-w64``` is installed.
- Run ```make build-win```.
- Run the built executable in ```bin```.

Commit message:

Initial wide char support. Displays correctly on Windows with non-english locale

README.md, after:

# mineweeper

A minesweeper clone written in C/C++ to be run in a terminal with ```ncurses``` and ```pdcurses``` support.
Windows build was cross-compiled from Linux.

## Controls

- WASD / Arrow keys = Move cursor
- Space = Flag a cell
- Enter = Reveal a cell

## Features

- [X] Three different difficulties + hidden custom difficulty
- [X] Safe first cell, first cell always guaranteed to be a zero cell
- [X] Colour support
- [X] Quick reveal (press enter on a numbered cell once enough flags were placed around it to reveal unflagged cells)
- [X] Windows & Linux support

## Planned Features

- [ ] GUI support
- [ ] Leaderboard / score system
- [ ] Daily / Weekly challenges
- [ ] Refactored / cleaner codebase (current code is too hacky and written in a few hours)

## Known Issues

- Larger field sizes will be slower to be redrawn
- When playing custom difficulty, the game will be softlocked after the first click if the number of safe spaces is too little compared to the available cells (eg. 10x10 board with 99 mines)

## Custom Difficulty

Run the app with the following commandline arguments: ```minesweeper -D 3 -W [width] -H [height] -M [mines]```

- ```width``` and ```height``` must be at least 9
- ```mines``` must be at least 1

## Build Instructions

### Linux

Linux build is easy to compile. We recommend WSL if you're on Windows:
- Make sure ```ncurses``` is installed.
- Make sure ```g++``` is installed.
- Run ```make build-linux```.
- Run the built executable in ```bin```.

### Windows

Windows build need to be cross-compiled from Linux and is more complicated. WSL is recommended:
- Prebuilt ```pdcurses``` is already included as ```libpdcurses.a```.
  - To build from platforms other than Linux, you need to rebuild ```pdcurses``` from [source](https://pdcurses.org/).
- Make sure ```mingw-w64``` is installed.
- Run ```make build-win```.
- Run the built executable in ```bin```.

## License

All code with the exception of the precompiled ```pdcurses``` is licensed under GPLv2.
